.\" Copyright (c) 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     from: @(#)cos.3	5.1 (Berkeley) 5/2/91
.\"	$NetBSD: cos.3,v 1.16.2.1 2019/09/05 08:19:40 martin Exp $
.\"
.Dd January 15, 2024
.Dt STDC_TRAILING_ONES 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm stdc_trailing_ones_uc ,
.Nm stdc_trailing_ones_us ,
.Nm stdc_trailing_ones_ui ,
.Nm stdc_trailing_ones_ul ,
.Nm stdc_trailing_ones_ull ,
.Nm stdc_trailing_ones
.Nd count trailing ones in an unsigned integer
.Sh LIBRARY
.Lb libc
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In stdbit.h
.Ft unsigned int
.Fn stdc_trailing_ones_uc "unsigned char x"
.Ft unsigned int
.Fn stdc_trailing_ones_us "unsigned short x"
.Ft unsigned int
.Fn stdc_trailing_ones_ui "unsigned int x"
.Ft unsigned int
.Fn stdc_trailing_ones_ul "unsigned long x"
.Ft unsigned int
.Fn stdc_trailing_ones_ull "unsigned long long x"
.Ft generic_value_type
.Fn stdc_trailing_ones "generic_value_type x"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The
.Fn stdc_trailing_ones_uc ,
.Fn stdc_trailing_ones_us ,
.Fn stdc_trailing_ones_ui ,
.Fn stdc_trailing_ones_ul ,
and
.Fn stdc_trailing_ones_ull
functions counts the first consecutive set bits in
.Fa x
going from the least significant bit to the most
significant bit.
.Pp
The
.Fn stdc_trailing_ones
function is a type-generic macro that expands
to one of the functions mentioned depending on the argument type.
.Fn
.Sh RETURN VALUES
The functions return the first consecutive set least significant bits in
.Fa x .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr stdbit 3
.Sh STANDARDS
The stdc_trailing_ones functions conforms to
.St -isoC-2023 .
